ansible/Readme.md, before:

# Ansible playbooks

Initial hint: Make sure you have Ansible configured for human-readable output (`human-readable-output.yaml`). This is automated if Ansible was installed with `quickstart.sh`.

## Configuration

### Project setup

In `group_vars/all.yaml`, change `project_name` and `server_git_url`

### Servers setup

In `inventory.yaml` add each server as an entry in `all.children.remote.hosts`

## Requirements

- [Install Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html). Currently requires Ansible 2.8
- Run `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yaml` to install other requirements.

## Usage

To setup or update a server, run:
```sh
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yaml -l <host_or_group> deploy.yaml
```
with host_or_group from inventory.

### Working directory

Please run Ansible from this directory. It can also be run from other ones, but:
- yaml files require a path
- some tasks use `dirname $PWD` to get the path to the project in localhost

### Quickstart

Because the deploy needs to run the quickstart script, it was converted to an Ansible role. So `quickstart.sh` now installs the requirements and runs only the quickstart role. Some variables are set in `inventory.yaml` to make it work.

### DB

![backup and other operations diagram](backup-diagram.png)

- `backup-db` works as in Fabric.
- `download-db` always takes a new backup and downloads that (if you want to download a previous one, just use `scp`).
- `import-db` by default imports a fresh backup. You can specify a local dump file in the `local_dump` variable (example: `ansible-playbook ... --limit localhost import-db.yaml -e local_dump=staging/2019-08-22.dump`).
- `export-db` can be used in two modes:
    - Export local dump to *host_B*: `ansible-playbook ... --limit host_B export-db.yaml -e local_dump=staging/2019-08-22.dump`
    - Export remote dump from *host_A* to *host_B*: `ansible-playbook ... --limit host_A,host_B export-db.yaml`

### Media

Same as DB, but replace `local_dump` with `local_archive`

### Project helpers

- `run-django-command`: specify the Django command to be run in the variable `django_command`
- `validate-deployment`: runs tests.
- `service-logs`: shows systemd Django service log.
- `migrate-db`: runs Django migrations.
- `reset-db`: resets DB to initial state. `local_settings` must have `DEBUG = True`.

#### Services

Actions are grouped in playbooks and services are tagged. For example, to restart nginx only, run `ansible-playbook ... --tags nginx restart-services.yaml`. There's also a `project` tag that targets both gunicorn and nginx.

Available actions are `install-services`, `start-services`, `restart-services`, `stop-services` and `enable-services`.

## Notes

- DB is automatically backed up when pulling changes. Also, DB/Media are automatically backed up on target machine when using `export`. If they are too big, comment those tasks, and make sure to delete old backups.
- DB name is assumed to be the same as `project_name` (to avoid parsing `local_settings.py`)
- Remote DB dumps are assumed to be stored in `~/db_dumps/`, and Media archives in `~`
- Backup/restore Media doesn't support `relative_path`

## Linting

Install the linter with
```sh
pip install "ansible-lint>=4.1.1a0"
```
and run it with
```sh
ansible-lint *.yaml
```
Note: the pre-release version is currently required because of an [issue](https://github.com/ansible/ansible-lint/issues/484).

Commit message:

refactor: move playbooks to separate folder

ansible/Readme.md, after:

# Ansible playbooks

Initial hint: Make sure you have Ansible configured for human-readable output (`human-readable-output.yaml`). This is automated if Ansible was installed with `quickstart.sh`.

## Configuration

### Project setup

In `group_vars/all.yaml`, change `project_name` and `server_git_url`

### Servers setup

In `inventory.yaml` add each server as an entry in `all.children.remote.hosts`

## Requirements

- [Install Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html). Currently requires Ansible 2.8
- Run `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yaml` to install other requirements.

## Usage

To setup or update a server, run:
```sh
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yaml -l <host_or_group> playbooks/deploy.yaml
```
with host_or_group from inventory.

### Working directory

Please run Ansible from this directory. It can also be run from other ones, but:
- yaml files require a path
- some tasks use `dirname $PWD` to get the path to the project in localhost

### Quickstart

Because the deploy needs to run the quickstart script, it was converted to an Ansible role. So `quickstart.sh` now installs the requirements and runs only the quickstart role. Some variables are set in `inventory.yaml` to make it work.

### DB

![backup and other operations diagram](backup-diagram.png)

- `backup-db` works as in Fabric.
- `download-db` always takes a new backup and downloads that (if you want to download a previous one, just use `scp`).
- `import-db` by default imports a fresh backup. You can specify a local dump file in the `local_dump` variable (example: `ansible-playbook ... --limit localhost playbooks/import-db.yaml -e local_dump=staging/2019-08-22.dump`).
- `export-db` can be used in two modes:
    - Export local dump to *host_B*: `ansible-playbook ... --limit host_B playbooks/export-db.yaml -e local_dump=staging/2019-08-22.dump`
    - Export remote dump from *host_A* to *host_B*: `ansible-playbook ... --limit host_A,host_B playbooks/export-db.yaml`

Note that the dumps are inside the `playbooks` folder, but paths are relative to it, not `cwd`.

### Media

Same as DB, but replace `local_dump` with `local_archive`

### Project helpers

- `run-django-command`: specify the Django command to be run in the variable `django_command`
- `validate-deployment`: runs tests.
- `service-logs`: shows systemd Django service log.
- `migrate-db`: runs Django migrations.
- `reset-db`: resets DB to initial state. `local_settings` must have `DEBUG = True`.

#### Services

Actions are grouped in playbooks and services are tagged. For example, to restart nginx only, run `ansible-playbook ... --tags nginx playbooks/restart-services.yaml`. There's also a `project` tag that targets both gunicorn and nginx.

Available actions are `install-services`, `start-services`, `restart-services`, `stop-services` and `enable-services`.

## Notes

- DB is automatically backed up when pulling changes. Also, DB/Media are automatically backed up on target machine when using `export`. If they are too big, comment those tasks, and make sure to delete old backups.
- DB name is assumed to be the same as `project_name` (to avoid parsing `local_settings.py`)
- Remote DB dumps are assumed to be stored in `~/db_dumps/`, and Media archives in `~`
- Backup/restore Media doesn't support `relative_path`

## Linting

Install the linter with
```sh
pip install "ansible-lint>=4.1.1a0"
```
and run it with
```sh
ansible-lint **/*.yaml
```
Note: the pre-release version is currently required because of an [issue](https://github.com/ansible/ansible-lint/issues/484).
